I want to share one bit of family history with you. My maternal grandfather, Charles Howell, retired from the REO Motor Car Company. So he took a position working in the Capitol during WW II. He was the custodian. He ran the elevators, he was in charge of putting the flags up and down.My sister still fondly remembers rides on the elevator with him when she was very, very young. So it is with pride that our family has another member going to work in this institution, although I can say the elevator rides may not be as much fun. Let me turn now to our great state, and the power of Michigan. Innovators and entrepreneurs were the leaders in the two major eras in our history. Fur trappers and traders, people in the iron and copperbusiness, people in the lumber and pewter industry. They were the people who led us the way and showed us the power of Michigan in the natural resources era. Entrepreneurs such as Kellogg, Ford, Dow, Gerber and Upjohn. The showed us the power of Michiganduring the industrial era. The industrial era in our state will go down as one of the world’s great economic success stories. It served as a catalyst to change not just our nation but the entire world. Unfortunately, the last part of the industrial era has been a period of decline in our state. And it has gone on for several decades. We have been shrinking relative to the rest of the country. To put it in perspective, in the 1960s we had our largest number of seats in the U.S. House of Representatives at 19. In 2012, that number will drop to 14 –a loss of five seats over 40 years. To put that in perspective, in 2012 we will have lost more representation than over 20 states have in their entire delegation. We’ve also become a poorer state in relation to the rest of the country. Our rank in per capita income was 18th in the year 2000, and the latest data shows us at 37. But we are not here today to talk about the past. We are here today to move into a bright future. This election was a point of realization.It was a point where we understood where the old ways don’t work. It is time to start a new era in our state’s history. If we stayed on this current path we would continue to go downward. This is our moment of opportunity to realize we have a bright future instead of a declining future. As building blocks we have world class assets to build upon. Our natural resources, universities, our manufacturing and industrial base. And more importantly, our people. President Abraham Lincoln was looking to America’sfuture during the darkest times of the Civil War when he said: “The dogmas of the quiet past are inadequate to stormy present. The occasion is piled high with difficulty, and we must rise to the occasion. As our case is new, so we must think anew and act anew.” We can heed his words and enter this new year with a clean slate. Our legacy will be found in the future, the opportunity we create for Michigan’s coming generations. The underlying key to success, though, is to change our culture. We need to go from negative to positive, we need to stop looking in the rear view mirror and look toward the future. We need to stop being divisive and start being inclusive. We have spent too much time fighting among ourselves and have become our own worst enemy. This will not be simple or easy. There are no magic solutions to our problems. But with those problems there also comes opportunity. I’ve been hired to represent all of the people of the State Michigan, and to move us all forward together. It will require sharedsacrifice from all of us. Many have already made sacrifices. Many of us need to join those who already contributed. When we make changes like this we are faced with the realization many of us will have to take a step back in the short term to move us all forward together in the long term. As part of the solution, we need to include everyone. Our solution has to address the issue, the challenge of keeping young people in this state. We must create more and better opportunities and jobs for the underemployed, and the structurally unemployed. The reinvention of Michigan must not leave anyone behind. We have a road map of how to achieve success. We campaigned on a bold vision, a concise plan and an attitude of action. Clear and tangible steps. We must do morethan just ask the government to do things in a new way, we must ask our people to be part of the solution. As I traveled the state, in every corner of 
the state, I had mothers, fathers, grandparents come up to me and say, ‘Help us make this a place for our children to either stay or come back.’ And they also said, ‘How can help?’ It is about us all working together. Lansing and state government will not be the solution to all our problems, 10 million people working together is the key. I am inspired by the fact that Mayor Bing and Mayor Heartwell can join us today. We need to put party and geography aside and come together as Michiganders to reinvent our state. I wasn’t’ hired to just be the governor of state government. I was hired to be governor of the entire state of Michigan. We must all come together to achieve success. It is time to stop fighting among ourselves, it is time to solve problems and create opportunities. It is also time to be bold. I’ve been cautioned by many that expectations are already too high. We shouldn’t walk away from high expectations, it is time to deliver on high expectations. We need to stop accepting the status quo. Now, I want to share one story with you, one of our success stories in this state —Mike and Stacy Marsh. They started as entrepreneurs. They started two sandwich shops in the Ann Arbor area, yogurt and sandwich. And they were successful. But they had high expectations. They didn’t stop there. When they looked at their sandwich business they realized there was anopportunity to innovate, with bread. So they not only made sandwiches, they started making bread. They innovated on a 10,000-year-old product. And today they have created an organization called Flatout Bread that is selling tens of millions of dollars ofbread every year. That’s the kind of role model in our state. And I want to thank and congratulate Mike and Stacy, they are here today on their success. You are the role model for the future. Because they sent us two clear messages: With high expectations you can achieve great results. Also importantly with respect to innovation, we have to remember, innovation is not about technology, it’s a state of mind that we all have the power to do. For the reinvention of Michigan going ahead, at a minimum we need to commit to the four following objectives: Number one, we will be a globally competitive leader in innovation. Number two, we will create more and better jobs. Number three, we will create a bright future for our young people. And finally, we will do this together, and not leave some behind. Part of the process is to celebrate some of the great successes we have going for us. Over the next year you will hear of Power of Michigan events, to highlight great entrepreneurial and innovation activities in our state. We will highlight things we are already doing, things such as ArtPrize in Grand Raids, the Accelerate Michigan innovation contest in southeastern Michigan. Michigan Tech’s institute for leadership and innovation up in Hougton. We have great things going, and we will celebrate them. We all want to live in a state of high expectations, and more importantly high results. We can only achieve extraordinary things if we aspire beyond traditional thinking. The old, unbelievable needs to become the new achievable. New expectations for our lives, and the lives of our children. Let today be the birth of a new chapter in Michigan’s history. Let today be the birth of the era of innovation and the reinvention of Michigan. Thank you and may God bless you and thegreat state of Michigan.