Faculty and administration; reverend clergy, students and graduates; distinguished guests, and most importantly, President Bottomly and her family.

Today we celebrate the wisdom of Wellesley College. 

I’m happy to be here to welcome President Bottomly to the world-class educational community in this commonwealth.  She has excelled in each step along her path to this milestone, especially in her work to expand opportunities to women in higher education, for students as well as faculty members. 

Wellesley College is wise indeed to have placed her at the helm.  She is absolutely the right choice to steward this college into its next era of achievement and growth.

For our commonwealth, her leadership could not come at a more important time.  In these times we are facing unprecedented challenges.  Graduates are entering into a global economy where the skills and talents of our graduates today will be measured against those of graduates not just in Raleigh and San José, but in Shanghai and Bangalore as well.

Both China and India are turning out qualified engineers at extraordinary rates, building and securing the foundations for economic and educational competitiveness for generations.  And China has plans to build a university the scale and capacity of UCLA every year for the next ten years. 

Our ambition is not just to adjust to this fundamental change, but to lead it.  Our colleges and universities, public and private, must continue to be engines of economic growth and social justice.  They must continue to drive innovation in science and the arts.  And they must continue to cultivate the highly skilled talent that – as leaders from both here and overseas constantly confirm – is our calling card around the world.

Since its founding 138 years ago, Wellesley College has earned its place in that tradition of excellence.  Today students continue to advance and succeed, capitalizing on all that this commonwealth and this institution have to offer in brainpower and innovative spirit.  Wellesley brings new possibilities to young women, fostering civic engagement and a culture of opportunity in the community and our commonwealth.

I am confident in our ability to meet our challenges because I have confidence in our people.  President Bottomly’s leadership ensures a very bright future for this institution and all that it contributes to our commonwealth.  I value your work and look forward to your continuing partnership.  Congratulations.